docs/README.md, before:

---
title: Home
home: true
heroImage: logo.svg
heroAlt: logo
heroText: Taskiq python
actions:
  - text: Get Started
    link: /guide/getting-started.html
    type: primary
  - text: Introduction
    link: /guide/
    type: secondary
head:
  - - meta
    - name: "google-site-verification"
      content: "hQCR5w2tmeuOvYIYXsOYU3u4kLNwT86lnqltANYlRQ0"
features:
    - title: Fully asynchronous
      details: Taskiq can run both sync and async functions. You don't have to worry about it.
    - title: Easily extensible
      details: Taskiq has a lot of replaceable components. It's super easy to implement
        your own broker or middleware.
    - title: Strongly typed
      details: Taskiq provides correct autocompletion for most of its functionality.
    - title: Simple
      details: We tried to make the interface to be as simple as possible. And we are proud of it.
footer: MIT Licensed | Copyright© 2022
---

## Installation

You can install taskiq with pip or your favorite dependency manager:

```bash:no-line-numbers
pip install taskiq
```

Commit message:

Updated documentation with different project comparasion.
Signed-off-by: Pavel Kirilin <win10@list.ru>

docs/README.md, after:

---
title: Home
home: true
heroImage: logo.svg
heroAlt: logo
heroText: Taskiq python
actions:
  - text: Get Started
    link: /guide/getting-started.html
    type: primary
  - text: Introduction
    link: /guide/
    type: secondary
head:
  - - meta
    - name: "google-site-verification"
      content: "hQCR5w2tmeuOvYIYXsOYU3u4kLNwT86lnqltANYlRQ0"
features:
    - title: Production ready
      details: Taskiq has proven that it can run in heavy-production systems with high load.
    - title: Fully asynchronous
      details: Taskiq can run both sync and async functions. You don't have to worry about it.
    - title: Easily extensible
      details: Taskiq has a lot of replaceable components. It's super easy to implement
        your own broker or middleware.
    - title: Strongly typed
      details: Taskiq provides correct autocompletion for most of its functionality.
footer: MIT Licensed | Copyright© 2022-2023
---

## Installation

You can install taskiq with pip or your favorite dependency manager:

```bash:no-line-numbers
pip install taskiq
```
